Add IP Access List docs (#3848)
astronomer/docs: astro/set-up-ip-access.md

---
sidebar_label: "Set up IP Access List"
title: "Set up IP Access List on Astro"
id: ip-access-list
description: Configure IP Access list to control the IP addresses from where your users can log in to Astro.
---

import EnterpriseBadge from '@site/src/components/EnterpriseBadge';

<EnterpriseBadge/>

> You can restrict which IP addresses or IP address ranges can access the Astro service for your specific Organization. This means that if your organization uses a VPN or other mechanism that limits the IP addresses your users might have, you can restrict access to your Astro Deployments to the IP addresses that you define in the the Astro UI.

Reviewer: This reads great, but my structural piece of feedback is that we're not clarifying what the _default_ behavior is. In other words, if you don't do this -- what happens? What is the "current state" that a customer would have to reject in order to do this.

Something like: `By default, Astro does not restrict IP addresses...` (I don't know enough to suggest ugh sorry)

> You can restrict which IP addresses or IP address ranges can access the Astro service for your specific implementation. This means that if your organization uses a VPN or other mechanism that limits the IP addresses your users might have, you can restrict access to your Astro Deployments to the IP addresses that you define in the the Astro UI.

Reviewer 2: for you specific organization instead of implementation ?

> You can restrict which IP addresses or IP address ranges can access the Astro service for your specific implementation. This means that if your organization uses a VPN or other mechanism that limits the IP addresses your users might have, you can restrict access to your Astro Deployments to the IP addresses that you define in the the Astro UI.

Author: ```suggestion
You can restrict which IP addresses or IP address ranges can access the Astro service for your specific Organization. This means that if your organization uses a VPN or other mechanism that limits the IP addresses your users might have, you can restrict access to your Astro Deployments to the IP addresses that you define in the the Astro UI.
```

> After you enable the IP Access List, neither Airflow API no Astro API requests can access the Astro Organization, whether by using the Astro UI or programmatically through API requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you enable the IP Access List, the Airflow REST API and Astro API cannot access your Astro Organization, whether through the Astro UI or direct API requests.
```

- Does **IP Access List** have to be all-caps?
- Well presumably it can access but only specific to certain IP addresses? Reads kind of confusing

## Prerequisites

- Organization Owner permissions

## Set up IP Access list

1. In the Astro UI, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings**. This opens the **General** Organization page.
2. Select **Authentication**.
3. In the **IP Access List** section, select **IP Address Range**.
4. Add the IP Adress range or ranges in CIDR format.
    :::danger

    Make sure the first IP range you add is inclusive of the IP you are currently using, or you will be locked out of your organization.

    :::

## Restore access

> Because the IP Access List completely restricts access to the Astro UI to specific IP addresses, if you do not have access to their VPN or to an authorized network, you cannot access the Astro UI at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the IP Access List limits access to the Astro UI only to specific IP addresses, you cannot access the Astro UI if you're not connected to a corresponding VPN or authorized network.
```

> To restore access for a user that is blocked the Organization Owner needs to either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restore access for a user that is blocked, an Organization Owner needs to either:
```

> - Disable the IP Access list setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Disable the IP Access list setting or
```

> - Disable the IP Access list setting or

Reviewer 3: I don't think we have anable disable functionality. Really to disable one would delete all existing ip allow list entries

> - Disable the IP Access list setting or

Author: ```suggestion
- Disable the IP Access list setting by deleting the list or
```

- Add the specific blocked user's IP address to the IP Access list.

> After resolving the user's access issue, be sure to enable IP Access list again to maintain the IP addres restrictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you disable the IP Access List setting to resolve the user's access issue temporarily, remember to enable the setting again to maintain the IP address restrictions.
```
